KCODE KWEB ARCHITECTURE DISCUSSION
=================================

Purpose
-------

This document records the architecture discussion that led to
kcode-kweb-db 1.0.0. It is intended as a handoff to Kennedy. It emphasizes the
decisions that were reached, explains why they were reached, and calls out
ideas that were considered but deliberately rejected.

The implementation in kcode-kweb-db is the authoritative behavior. This
document explains that behavior and the reasoning behind it.


1. Migration context and compatibility boundary
------------------------------------------------

The old kennedy-server Kweb foundation is kweb-db-core. The replacement is
kcode-kweb-db, a new transaction-oriented database rather than an incremental
revision of the old storage model.

DECISION:

Kennedy will migrate its current database from kweb-db-core to
kcode-kweb-db. The storage engine and transaction model change substantially,
but Kennedy's existing model-facing Kweb navigation and mutation features are
a compatibility contract. Existing Kennedy features are not supposed to
disappear merely because the backend changes.

The object store is an additive capability. It does not replace existing node,
connection, navigation, ownership, history, or mutation behavior.

It is useful to distinguish four boundaries:

1. Kennedy's model-facing/application API.
   This is the compatibility surface shown to Kennedy and its users. It should
   remain conceptually stable through the migration.

2. The typed Rust kcode-kweb-db API.
   Kennedy-server uses typed values such as NodeData, Provenance, NodeId,
   ObjectId, and Vec<u8>. It is not asked to understand database files.

3. The private database storage format.
   State, nodes, history, indexes, objects, the WAL, and queues use private,
   versioned binary formats owned by kcode-kweb-db.

4. The replication/gossip wire value.
   Gossip transports opaque canonical signed transaction bytes and the raw
   objects declared by those transactions. This is intentionally binary
   because every peer must authenticate exactly the same bytes.

The private disk encoding does not leak into Kennedy's ordinary read and
mutation interface. Gossip is the deliberate exception: exact signed bytes
must cross the replication boundary.


2. Complete node revisions
--------------------------

NodeData is the complete authoritative content of one node revision:

    short_name
    short_description
    long_description
    owner
    fixed_connections
    recent_connections
    objects

DECISION:

Transaction::create_node supplies the complete initial NodeData.
Transaction::update_node replaces the complete NodeData. This includes fully
replacing fixed_connections and recent_connections in the same transaction as
all other node changes.

There is no separate low-level connect, disconnect, or connection-patch
operation in the database. Empty connection vectors clear those connections.
Reordering a vector is meaningful and is preserved exactly.

This gives Kennedy one atomic operation for changing all aspects of a node.
It also avoids a proliferation of special mutation APIs whose independent
updates could expose partial state.


3. Fixed connections and recent connections
--------------------------------------------

The final storage names are exactly:

    fixed_connections
    recent_connections

The older backend concepts described as active and fanout connections are
represented together by recent_connections.

DECISION:

kcode-kweb-db preserves fixed_connections and recent_connections as two
distinct, ordered vectors. The database does not interpret positions in those
vectors.

Kennedy, outside the generic database, owns the policy that:

* fixed connections occupy its three fixed positions;
* the first eight recent connections are active connections; and
* remaining recent connections are fanout connections.

The database enforces uniqueness within each vector and validates identifier
domains. The same target may appear once in fixed_connections and once in
recent_connections because the generic store assigns no policy meaning to
that overlap.

DECISION:

There is no database-level maximum number of fixed or recent connections.
Kennedy applies Kweb policy limits. The database uses checked lengths,
canonical transaction-size limits, and allocation failure handling for
finite-memory safety rather than imposing Kennedy-specific connection counts.


4. Whole-node conflict and merge behavior
-----------------------------------------

Because a transaction stores a complete NodeData revision, concurrent changes
to text, ownership, connections, and object references compete as whole-node
revisions. Fields from two competing revisions are never silently combined.

DECISION:

The database owns causal projection, conflict-frontier maintenance, writer
priority, and merge correctness.

A causal descendant supersedes its ancestor. Incomparable revisions remain in
the node's conflict frontier. The configured writer priority selects the
visible candidate deterministically; transaction ID is the deterministic
tie-breaker for the same writer.

An explicit backend merge provides one new complete NodeData revision for an
exact conflict pair. Conflict management is database behavior, not a
Kennedy-facing model tool and not a reason to expose general transaction or
database-inspection APIs.


5. What remains outside the core library
----------------------------------------

Several initially discussed facilities were rejected as primary-library APIs.

DECISION:

The generic database does not expose database-wide enumeration, arbitrary
transaction inspection, global statistics, migration, backup, whole-database
validation, recovery orchestration, or Kennedy-specific conflict-management
tools merely to support the migration.

Migration and backup tools belong in separate Kennedy-owned code, including
kennedy-server where appropriate. Offline validation and disaster-recovery
tools may understand the versioned disk formats without expanding the live
database API.

The following also remain outside kcode-kweb-db:

* users, groups, and system root roles;
* mapping users to canonical root NodeIds;
* Kennedy authorization beyond the configured database writer keys;
* HTTP routes, Ktools, and frontend formats;
* active/fanout position policy;
* provenance filenames and media-type policy;
* application queues and cross-database workflows; and
* future streaming protocols for objects larger than the v1 limit.

Kennedy's identity storage tracks root nodes by canonical NodeId. The Kweb
database does not know which nodes are roots and does not bootstrap them.


6. Identifier and path decisions
--------------------------------

NodeId and ObjectId remain compact six-byte locators. Their canonical text is
exactly eight case-sensitive URL-safe unpadded Base64 characters.

DECISION:

The high-order type bit separates the raw NodeId and ObjectId domains. A node
and an object therefore cannot receive the same valid locator.

Current node and object files are sharded using the canonical text:

    nodes/<first 2 characters>/<remaining 6 characters>.kwn
    objects/<first 2 characters>/<remaining 6 characters>.kwo

The canonical eight-character value is the identifier. The slash is only an
on-disk sharding detail and is not part of the ID.

TransactionId and WriterId remain cryptographic 32-byte values rendered as 64
lowercase hexadecimal characters.

IDs produced by a local Transaction are pending in the application sense:
they belong to that mutation-locked, uncommitted transaction until finalize.
Dropping the transaction abandons them. Because the mutation lock excludes
other local and inbound mutation during that lifetime, they do not require a
second concurrent local reservation mechanism.

A signed gossip transaction is different. Its canonical IDs were fixed before
arrival and are authenticated as part of its signed bytes. A concurrent create
at an already selected NodeId is conflict input for whole-node convergence.
An immutable ObjectId collision is invalid, including collision with an object
created by one of the transaction's ancestors. NodeId and ObjectId raw domains
are disjoint, so a valid canonical ID cannot silently change type.


7. Disk-first authoritative storage
-----------------------------------

The earlier replay-and-cache design was rejected.

DECISION:

Current nodes are authoritative files beneath nodes/. Updating a node replaces
only that node's file through the WAL. Objects are authoritative immutable
files beneath objects/. Per-node history and transaction DAG metadata are
disk-backed indexes.

The append-only transaction log remains on disk for audit and offline recovery.
Normal database startup never loads the complete log into memory, never
replays it to reconstruct nodes, and never rebuilds the Kweb from historical
transactions.

Normal startup performs bounded work:

* validate the root and acquire its exclusive process lock;
* validate the format and small current state;
* clear abandoned uncommitted incoming-object staging;
* discard abandoned unprepared staging;
* roll forward prepared WAL entries;
* recover an interrupted gossip-outbox claim; and
* return without scanning the complete node, object, history, transaction, or
  append-only-log stores.

The primary library assumes committed files are sound until they are accessed.
An addressed file is locally checked for type, version, identity, canonical
structure, length, and checksum. Corruption is reported rather than triggering
an implicit whole-database rebuild.


8. Canonical binary formats, not JSON or Serde
----------------------------------------------

Checksummed JSON was explicitly rejected. It is verbose, leaves too many
representation choices, and makes the checksum depend on serialization
details that do not belong in a storage contract.

DECISION:

All committed internal records use hand-written canonical binary encodings.
There is exactly one valid encoding for one valid logical record.

The common record envelope contains:

* an eight-byte record-kind magic;
* a big-endian u64 payload length;
* the canonical binary payload; and
* SHA-256 over the magic, length, and payload.

Payload rules use fixed-width big-endian integers, one-byte tags, explicit
lengths, exact UTF-8 bytes, fixed-width raw IDs, and seconds-plus-nanoseconds
timestamps. Decoders reject invalid tags, invalid IDs, impossible lengths,
trailing bytes, noncanonical collection state, and checksum mismatches.

Object, signed-transaction, and append-only-log files use specialized binary
envelopes suited to their streaming and integrity needs. They are still
canonical, length-checked, and checksum-protected.

There is no active Serde or serde_json use in the library. The appearance of
an optional Serde package in a transitive crate's lockfile metadata would not
mean that kcode-kweb-db uses it; the built feature graph contains no Serde.

DECISION:

These disk formats are private implementation formats. Kennedy does not encode
or decode them across its ordinary application API.

The canonical signed transaction is different: it is the authenticated gossip
wire value. TransactionPackage contains those opaque signed bytes plus raw
object buffers. Kennedy's transport should frame and forward the package, not
reinterpret and reserialize the signed transaction.


9. Efficient record layout
---------------------------

The binary conversion was accompanied by removal of redundant disk fields.

DECISION:

A current node file stores its visible transaction ID and conflict-frontier
candidates. It derives the public visible node from the named candidate rather
than storing the same visible NodeData twice.

Transaction DAG metadata stores only what DAG lookup needs: format, transaction
ID, parents, and DAG generation. It does not duplicate unused writer, time, or
touched-node data already available elsewhere.

History remains per node and per transaction so get_node_history does not scan
the global log. Current node files do not contain the complete historical
record.


10. Object size and memory ownership
------------------------------------

The original 64 MiB object ceiling was rejected as far too small for Kennedy's
machines and expected use.

DECISION:

For 1.0.0:

    MAX_OBJECT_BYTES = 32 * 1024 * 1024 * 1024
    MAX_TRANSACTION_OBJECT_BYTES = 32 * 1024 * 1024 * 1024

Both the individual-object limit and aggregate new-object payload for one
transaction are exactly 32 GiB (34,359,738,368 bytes).

The release supports only 64-bit targets. A future streaming protocol may
support larger objects without requiring one owned Vec<u8>.

ObjectPayload and TransactionPackage deliberately do not implement Clone.
Large buffers are moved or borrowed. Object envelopes are written directly
from the caller's buffer. Local finalization releases its original object
buffers before the durable gossip package is loaded from the object store.

The transaction's canonical signed metadata has its own 64 MiB ceiling. That
is separate from the 32 GiB object payload allowance.


11. ACID transactions and the WAL
---------------------------------

The transaction log append, objects, current nodes, history, DAG metadata,
current heads, state generation, and gossip enqueue must become durable as one
logical transaction.

DECISION:

kcode-kweb-db uses a deliberately small internal write-ahead log. A generalized
Sia-scale WAL was considered unnecessary for 1.0.0. Correctness comes first;
performance can be optimized after measurement.

The essential commit protocol is:

1. Validate and project one transaction while holding the mutation lock.
2. Write replacement and create-new files into a transaction-specific WAL
   building directory.
3. Write a canonical checksummed WAL intent containing expected generation and
   log offset, staged-file identities and hashes, and the exact log-frame
   operation.
4. fsync staged files, the intent, and affected directories.
5. Atomically rename the building WAL directory to its prepared name and sync
   wal/. This publication is the durable commit decision.
6. Apply every operation idempotently, including the exact append-only-log
   frame at its expected offset.
7. Apply state.kws last so readers never observe a partially applied logical
   generation.
8. fsync affected files and directories, then remove the prepared WAL entry.

A crash before prepared-WAL publication commits nothing. A crash after it
causes startup to roll the transaction forward before serving reads.

The append-only log is never used as an ordinary startup replay mechanism.
Its expected offset lives in the small current state. WAL recovery accepts only
the exact already-present frame or an append at the exact expected end.


12. Why staged objects use hard links instead of rename
-------------------------------------------------------

Objects attached to a gossip transaction whose dependencies are missing are
written beneath:

    incoming/<transaction ID>/<object ID>.kwo

The file is already the final checksummed object envelope. The payload is
written exactly once.

When the transaction becomes ready, kcode-kweb-db creates a hard link from the
incoming file into that transaction's WAL staging directory. WAL application
then creates a hard link from the staged inode to the final objects/ path.
After the transaction is committed, the extra incoming and WAL names are
removed.

DECISION:

Use hard links for staged immutable objects rather than moving the only name
with rename.

Reasons:

* A hard link is a metadata operation and does not copy or rewrite payload
  bytes.
* All relevant paths are created under one database root and are required to
  reside on the same filesystem, which is also the requirement for an atomic
  cross-directory rename. Mounting wal/, incoming/, or objects/ on separate
  filesystems is therefore not a supported layout.
* Before the WAL's prepared publication, the incoming name must remain valid.
  If preparation fails, the in-memory waiting transaction can be retried using
  the same staged object.
* Renaming incoming/ into an unprepared WAL directory would remove the
  waiter's only stable name. Dropping a failed WAL build could then delete the
  object while the in-memory transaction still expects it, requiring a fragile
  rollback rename.
* After the durable commit decision, recovery needs a known-good WAL staging
  name until application is complete. A hard link lets staging and the final
  destination coexist while referring to the same immutable bytes.
* If the process crashes after the final link appears but before state is
  applied, WAL recovery can verify either name and finish idempotently.
* Removing any one link does not remove the inode while another link remains.

Rename is still used where ownership really should move atomically, especially
when publishing the prepared WAL directory and replacing mutable state files.
Hard links are specifically useful for immutable create-new files that need to
exist safely at both the recovery source and destination during commit.

Checksum reads still occur while staging and applying an object. Those reads
verify integrity; they do not rewrite or duplicate the payload.


13. Meaning of the incoming staging area
----------------------------------------

The term "ephemeral" previously caused confusion.

DECISION:

incoming/ is better understood as uncommitted object staging for
memory-resident gossip waiters.

The staged object file is physically written and fsynced. It is not
authoritative database state because the corresponding signed transaction has
not committed.

The waiting transaction itself remains in memory. If the process exits before
the transaction becomes ready, the transaction is lost and the next open
clears its orphaned incoming files. The sender must resubmit.

If the WAL was already durably prepared before a crash, its own hard link keeps
the object inode alive even when startup clears incoming/. WAL recovery then
installs the final object and completes the transaction.


14. Transaction heads and the frontend
--------------------------------------

Terminology matters:

* A transaction's heads are prior transactions.
* Those heads are the new transaction's parents or dependencies.
* The new transaction is the child of the transactions it names.

DECISION:

Kennedy's frontend does not remember one "latest transaction" and manually
attach it.

KwebDb::start_transaction reads and snapshots every current database head.
Transaction::finalize includes all of those heads in the canonical signed
transaction. There may be more than one current head after concurrent
activity, so reducing this to one remembered latest ID would be incorrect.

The transaction guard prevents another local builder or inbound transaction
from changing the database while a local transaction is being built.


15. Strict dependency admission
-------------------------------

No transaction may enter committed database state until every transaction in
its heads has already committed. The same rule applies recursively to each
dependency.

DECISION:

There are two explicit inbound admission behaviors:

    accept_transaction(package)

This is strict admission for a caller expected to be causally complete. If any
head is absent, it returns InvalidTransaction immediately. It does not validate
or stage large object payloads after discovering the missing head, does not
write incoming state, and does not ask the gossip system for anything.

    accept_gossip_transaction(package, source)

This is source-aware peer admission. If heads are missing, the database may
retain the signed transaction, stage its objects, and call the supplied
TransactionSource with the missing transaction IDs. The exact peer/transport
that supplied the transaction can then provide them.

The old fallback design in which generic accept_transaction asked the
configured outbound Gossip object for missing dependencies was rejected. A
non-gossip caller with missing dependencies has most likely violated its own
causal bookkeeping and should receive a direct error.

The complete gossip protocol is intentionally deferred. These methods establish
the desired causal distinction, but serving requested historical packages,
retry scheduling, peer framing, authorization, and the final public shape of
the gossip integration will be revisited together when Kennedy has a fully
specified gossip protocol. Those later protocol APIs are not a blocker for the
initial local database migration.


16. Recursive gossip dependency resolution
------------------------------------------

When a gossip transaction has missing heads:

* its signature, canonical structure, writer authorization, declarations, and
  supplied object bytes are validated;
* its canonical signed transaction bytes remain in an in-memory dependency
  graph;
* each final object envelope is written to incoming/ so the large Vec<u8> can
  be released;
* its object IDs are reserved against competing pending or local creation;
* the source is asked for directly missing transaction IDs; and
* nothing from the waiting transaction enters committed state.

If a requested dependency arrives but itself has missing heads, the same rule
is applied recursively and the source is asked for those dependencies.

As dependencies commit, direct waiters are released. Newly ready transactions
are processed one at a time in topological order through the ordinary WAL
commit path.

DECISION:

Before all dependencies are committed, a waiting transaction does not appear
in:

* transactions.kwl;
* the committed transaction index;
* current heads or generation;
* node or history projection;
* the authoritative object store; or
* the durable gossip outbox.


17. Duplicate transaction behavior
----------------------------------

Gossip is naturally at-least-once, so the same transaction may arrive many
times.

DECISION:

An exact duplicate of either:

* an already committed transaction; or
* an in-memory transaction currently waiting for dependencies

is a successful no-op. The API returns Ok(false), where false means "nothing
new was accepted." A newly accepted transaction returns Ok(true).

A duplicate does not:

* append another log frame;
* project nodes or history again;
* install objects again;
* change heads or generation;
* enqueue another gossip announcement;
* rewrite staged state; or
* issue another dependency request.

If the retained transaction ID is somehow associated with different signed
bytes, the database reports corruption rather than treating it as a duplicate.


18. Gossip scope and durable delivery
-------------------------------------

DECISION:

The gossip network sends transactions, not database snapshots.

A transaction package contains:

* exact canonical signed transaction bytes; and
* only the objects created by that transaction.

Gossip never sends projected node files, checkpoints, root mappings, all
historical transactions, or the complete object store.

Each committed transaction receives a durable gossip-outbox marker within the
same WAL commit. Delivery claims one marker as INFLIGHT, loads one package, and
invokes Gossip::announce without holding the database mutation lock.

Successful handoff removes the claim. Failed handoff requeues it. Startup
recovers an interrupted claim but never scans the transaction log to recreate
or reannounce the historical database.


19. Reference and visibility behavior
-------------------------------------

Local node, owner, connection, and object references must resolve according to
the transaction's causal view. Nodes and objects created in the same
transaction can be referenced by that transaction.

For inbound replication, a reference is effective only when its creation is
causally available. Invalid or unresolved operations do not cause fields from
different competing revisions to be mixed.

Objects are visible only after their creating transaction commits. Waiting
objects under incoming/ are not returned by get_object.


20. Version and migration policy
--------------------------------

DECISION:

This architecture is released as kcode-kweb-db 1.0.0 because Kennedy is its
first major consumer.

Version 1 uses a new canonical transaction format and root-format 3. Earlier
roots and earlier signed transaction formats are not silently reinterpreted.
A nonempty old root produces OfflineUpgradeRequired.

The kweb-db-core migration is a separate offline/application tool. The primary
library does not gain migration, backup, enumeration, or global verification
APIs merely to perform that one transition.

Kennedy should audit the exact published source and pin exactly version 1.0.0
before performing the live data migration.


21. Testing and release posture
-------------------------------

The implementation was tested in focused pieces rather than presenting a large
undifferentiated failure list.

The dependency test covers a three-transaction chain delivered in reverse
order. It verifies:

* strict non-gossip rejection writes no staging state;
* gossip asks for the direct missing dependency;
* each supplied dependency recursively asks for its own missing dependency;
* no transaction log entry, node, or object becomes visible early;
* the chain commits parent-first in topological order;
* the staged object becomes visible only at final commit;
* a duplicate waiting transaction is a no-op; and
* a duplicate committed transaction does not change log length.

The binary codec test verifies deterministic byte-for-byte encoding,
round-trip decoding, and checksum failure on corruption.

At the time of this handoff:

* all 13 Rust tests pass;
* cargo fmt passes;
* Clippy passes with warnings denied;
* rustdoc passes with warnings denied; and
* cargo package successfully builds and verifies the 1.0.0 crate.

The current minimal WAL and its existing tests are accepted for the initial
migration. A generalized high-performance WAL and an exhaustive crash
fault-injection matrix are deliberately deferred. If an unusual failure cannot
be handled by the bounded prepared-WAL roll-forward path, separately operated
offline recovery is the fallback. This is a conscious scope decision rather
than a claim that every possible crash boundary has already been simulated.


22. Condensed final decisions
-----------------------------

For quick reference, the final decisions are:

* Keep Kennedy's existing model-facing Kweb capabilities.
* Replace kweb-db-core with the transactional kcode-kweb-db backend.
* Make NodeData a complete revision.
* Name the connection vectors fixed_connections and recent_connections.
* Preserve both vectors and their order.
* Keep active/fanout and fixed-position policy in Kennedy, not the database.
* Impose no database-specific connection-count limit.
* Resolve conflicts as complete node revisions.
* Keep migration, backup, enumeration, and global validation outside the core.
* Use disjoint six-byte NodeId and ObjectId domains with eight-character
  Base64 text and two/six path sharding.
* Store authoritative current nodes and immutable objects on disk.
* Never rebuild the Kweb from the transaction log at ordinary startup.
* Use canonical checksummed binary storage with no JSON or Serde.
* Keep private disk formats behind the typed Rust API.
* Carry exact opaque signed binary transactions only across gossip.
* Use a small WAL with prepared publication as the durable commit decision.
* Set both individual and per-transaction object payload limits to 32 GiB.
* Do not clone object-sized buffers.
* Write waiting object envelopes once to incoming/.
* Promote staged objects with hard links, not payload rewrites.
* Let local builders snapshot all current heads automatically.
* Reject missing heads from strict non-gossip admission.
* Let source-aware gossip wait and recursively request missing dependencies.
* Commit dependencies before their descendants.
* Treat exact waiting and committed duplicates as successful no-ops.
* Gossip only transactions and the objects those transactions create.
* Publish and pin the reviewed crate as kcode-kweb-db 1.0.0.


23. Readiness boundary for the Kennedy migration
------------------------------------------------

DECISION:

The library is ready to serve as the local backend for the kennedy-server
codebase migration.

Completing the peer-to-peer gossip protocol is a later project. In particular,
the exact historical-package serving API, outbox retry trigger, peer lifecycle,
and transport framing should be designed as one coherent protocol rather than
freezing provisional APIs now.

The initial migration may rely on the existing minimal WAL and offline recovery
posture. Additional recovery fault injection and WAL performance work can be
introduced incrementally after the application has moved to the new backend.

This readiness decision does not change the committed storage invariants:
canonical binary records, dependency-before-descendant admission, duplicate
no-op behavior, complete-node transactions, immutable objects, and
authoritative disk state remain final 1.0 decisions.
