Kennedy's object and file-exchange toolkit
==========================================

Purpose
-------

Users can give Kennedy files through browser and Telegram conversations.
Kennedy can remember those files as durable Kweb objects and can later send an
existing object back to a user with EmitObject.

The central model is:

    user file -> pending object -> history-ingress commit -> canonical object
    canonical object ID -> EmitObject -> durable Kennedy response -> adapter delivery

Objects are deliberately simple. There is no formal object-to-node attachment,
file node, ownership graph, or special media database. To remember a useful
object, record its object ID in ordinary Kmap text, normally in a node's long
description.

File exchange adds one model-callable delivery tool: EmitObject. Upload and
transport handling are performed by the browser, Telegram relay, session
journal, history-ingress transaction, and response adapters. Kennedy uses the
existing Kmap tools to make an object discoverable by meaning.


The three identities Kennedy must distinguish
----------------------------------------------

1. A filename is presentation metadata, not identity.

   Examples:

       signed-agreement.pdf
       family-photo.jpg
       interview-recording.ogg

   Several different objects may have the same filename.

2. A pending ID is temporary session identity.

   Example:

       pending:47

   It names bytes already staged safely for the current session transaction.
   It is meaningful only inside that transaction and cannot be used with
   EmitObject.

3. A canonical object ID is durable Kweb identity.

   Example:

       AAECAwQF

   It is exactly eight characters in the canonical Kweb object-ID format. This
   is the ID to record for later recall and pass to EmitObject.

Never substitute a filename for an object ID. Never invent, shorten, edit, or
guess an object ID.


How a user-supplied object appears
----------------------------------

A user message box containing an object renders a line like:

    Object provided: pending:47

The message may also include:

- the user's own caption or request;
- safe filename, media type, byte length, source, and transport-kind metadata;
- voice transcription;
- extracted document text;
- an extraction or preparation warning.

The `Object provided:` line names the original retained bytes. A transcription
or extracted-text box is supplementary. It is not the object, and it does not
replace the original file.

If extraction or transcription fails, the accepted object still exists. Treat
the failure as a limitation on understanding, not as proof that the upload was
lost.

Do not claim to have inspected image, audio, video, or arbitrary binary
contents merely because an object reference is present. Use only content
actually supplied in the user's text, a caption, a transcription, extracted
text, or another trustworthy preparation result.


What users can upload
---------------------

Browser conversations accept arbitrary nonempty files within the configured
session limits. Multiple files can accompany one user message. Recognized
documents may receive best-effort text extraction, but unsupported extraction
formats remain valid objects.

Telegram accepts:

- voice notes;
- generic documents;
- photos;
- videos;
- animations;
- audio tracks;
- video notes;
- stickers.

Telegram captions are preserved for photos, videos, animations, audio, and
documents. Sticker emoji may be preserved as text. Video notes have no
synthetic textual description.

A Telegram photo object is the largest deterministic rendition available
through the Bot API. It should not be described as necessarily containing the
sender's exact original upload bytes.

A generic Telegram document remains a document even if its MIME type begins
with `image/`, `video/`, or `audio/`. Transport kind and media type are related
metadata, but they are not interchangeable.


Object durability and commit timing
-----------------------------------

The original bytes are staged before their pending-object event is appended.
They remain in restart-safe session custody until history ingress completes.

During history ingress, one transaction:

1. creates every supplied file object;
2. obtains each canonical object ID;
3. replaces exact known pending-object tokens in the session archive;
4. replaces those same tokens in staged node descriptive text;
5. creates or updates the staged nodes and connections;
6. finalizes the complete transaction.

No second cleanup transaction is needed.

For example, Kennedy may stage this long description:

    The signed venue agreement is object pending:47. It is the final October
    contract and contains the cancellation terms.

After commit, the durable node may read:

    The signed venue agreement is object AAECAwQF. It is the final October
    contract and contains the cancellation terms.

Replacement applies only to exact known pending tokens. Preserve the complete
spelling `pending:N`. Do not write variants such as `pending N`, `pending-47`,
or only `47`.

The canonical object stores a small self-describing file envelope containing:

- a safe filename;
- media type;
- source transport kind when available;
- the exact retained content bytes.

Legacy Kweb objects without a file envelope can still be emitted. They receive
conservative metadata and generic download behavior.


Remembering a file during history ingress
-----------------------------------------

Conversation sessions are read-only with respect to Kmap mutations. Durable
memory work occurs in history ingress.

The practical availability boundary is:

- conversation: LoadNode and EmitObject are available, while Kmap mutation is
  read-only;
- history ingress: LoadNode, CreateNode, UpdateNode, connection tools, and
  EndSession are available, while EmitObject is unavailable because there is
  no user waiting for a conversational response.

When a supplied object may matter later:

1. Identify its exact `Object provided: pending:N` reference.
2. Decide which user-owned, group-owned, or Kennedy-owned node is appropriate.
3. Load the relevant nodes before changing them.
4. Use CreateNode or UpdateNode to put the exact pending ID in descriptive
   text, normally the long description.
5. Explain what the object is, why it matters, where it came from, and what
   future request should cause it to be recalled.
6. Complete all other useful memory work.
7. Call EndSession so the archive, objects, and node changes commit together.

A useful description is:

    Object pending:47 is David's signed 2026 venue agreement. It is the final
    PDF returned by the venue, covers the October event, and should be sent
    back when David asks for the signed agreement or its cancellation terms.

A poor description is:

    file pending:47

The ID alone is durable but not discoverable by meaning. Add enough semantic
context that a later Kennedy can locate the right node from the user's request.

Do not create a formal object-to-node relationship. Do not duplicate the
object merely to mention it in several nodes. The same ID may be described in
more than one appropriate node when that genuinely improves recall.

Recording an object ID does not change node ownership. Follow ordinary user,
group, and Kennedy ownership rules.


Exact ingress tool patterns
---------------------------

When updating an existing memory node, pass the complete replacement fields.
UpdateNode does not mean "append only":

    {
      "name": "UpdateNode",
      "arguments": {
        "identifier": "AAECAwQA",
        "ownerIdentifier": "AAECAwQB",
        "newShortName": "October venue agreement",
        "newShortDescription": "Final signed agreement and recall details.",
        "newLongDescription": "The final signed agreement is object pending:47. David supplied it for the October event; return it when he requests the signed contract or cancellation terms."
      }
    }

Preserve all still-valid prior knowledge when constructing the three complete
replacement fields.

When a dedicated memory node is justified, its parents and owner must already
be fully available:

    {
      "name": "CreateNode",
      "arguments": {
        "parentIdentifiers": ["AAECAwQC"],
        "ownerIdentifier": "AAECAwQB",
        "shortName": "October venue agreement",
        "shortDescription": "Final signed agreement and recall details.",
        "longDescription": "The final signed agreement is object pending:47. David supplied it for the October event; return it when he requests the signed contract or cancellation terms."
      }
    }

These examples use illustrative node IDs. Copy real loaded node IDs and the
real pending object token from context.

After all useful memory mutations succeed, finish history ingress with:

    {
      "name": "EndSession",
      "arguments": {}
    }

Do not merely announce that ingress is complete. EndSession is what commits
the complete archive, objects, and staged Kmap transaction.


Finding a remembered object later
---------------------------------

When a user asks for a previously supplied file:

1. Search memory conceptually using the subject, purpose, filename, people,
   event, or date in the request.
2. Use LoadNode on the most relevant canonical node.
3. Follow appropriate fixed or recent connections if needed.
4. Read the exact canonical object ID from the node's descriptive text.
5. Confirm that the description identifies the requested file, especially
   when several versions exist.
6. Pass that exact canonical ID to EmitObject.

Do not use the session archive's own object ID merely because it is visible in
history metadata. A session archive is not the same object as an uploaded
file.

If several versions exist, prefer the version whose node description matches
the requested status, date, or provenance. Ask the user when the choice is
materially ambiguous.


EmitObject: exact tool contract
-------------------------------

EmitObject is available only in a user-facing conversation. Invoke it through
the native call_ktool bridge:

    {
      "name": "EmitObject",
      "arguments": {
        "objectId": "AAECAwQF"
      }
    }

The names are case-sensitive:

- tool name: `EmitObject`
- sole argument: `objectId`

The argument must be one canonical eight-character object ID. Do not supply:

- `pending:N`;
- a node ID that merely points to an object;
- a filename;
- a URL;
- file bytes or Base64;
- a media type;
- a caption;
- extra arguments.

EmitObject:

1. validates the canonical ID;
2. reads and decodes the Kweb object;
3. checks that the active channel can accept its byte length;
4. creates one ordinary file-bearing Kennedy message;
5. returns the short success result `Object emitted to the user.`

That Kennedy message is recorded durably before the browser or Telegram
adapter performs delivery. EmitObject does not itself perform Telegram I/O.
It does not copy the object, mutate Kmap, or attach the object to a node.

A successful EmitObject call is already a user-facing response. If the file
fully answers the user, Kennedy may end the turn without adding prose.


Sending one object
------------------

For a direct request such as:

    Please send me the signed agreement.

Load enough memory to identify the exact object. Then call EmitObject once.
If the object is self-explanatory, no final prose is necessary.

If useful context is needed, call EmitObject and then give a short normal
response, for example:

    This is the final signed October agreement.

The explanatory prose is a separate response part. EmitObject currently does
not accept a caption argument.


Sending several objects
-----------------------

Call EmitObject once per object:

    {"name":"EmitObject","arguments":{"objectId":"AAECAwQF"}}
    {"name":"EmitObject","arguments":{"objectId":"AAECAwQG"}}
    {"name":"EmitObject","arguments":{"objectId":"AAECAwQH"}}

Use the user's requested order. After the successful calls, either end the
turn or add one concise normal response that explains the set.

Do not combine several IDs in one `objectId` string. Do not create a temporary
archive unless the user explicitly asked for an archive and an appropriate
tool actually created one.

Kennedy does not manage Telegram's `complete=true` or `complete=false` flags.
The response adapter marks intermediate files incomplete and completes the
transport event on the final file or final prose response.


Current creation boundary
-------------------------

EmitObject sends an existing Kweb object. It is not a general CreateFile,
RenderImage, ConvertFile, ZipFiles, or CreateObject tool.

Kennedy can return:

- a file the user previously supplied and history ingress committed;
- another existing Kweb object whose exact canonical ID is known and whose
  disclosure is appropriate.

Kennedy cannot use EmitObject to turn newly written prose, code, JSON, or
Base64 into a new downloadable object. Managed Rust-library write tools edit
managed source libraries; they do not automatically create user-downloadable
Kweb file objects.

Never claim a new file was attached unless a successful tool actually created
or emitted the corresponding object.


Pending objects cannot be emitted
---------------------------------

EmitObject rejects `pending:N`. A file uploaded in the current active
conversation does not receive its canonical ID until the source session ends
and history ingress commits.

Therefore, do not promise to immediately echo the current pending upload
through EmitObject. Kennedy may discuss the upload using its current context
and may arrange to remember it during ingress, but later recall requires the
canonical ID.

If an older canonical copy of the same file is already recorded in Kmap,
Kennedy may emit that older object only when it is clearly the version the user
wants.


How delivery is presented
-------------------------

The adapter chooses presentation from the retained transport kind and media
type. Kennedy does not pass a rendering mode to EmitObject.

Browser:

- images receive bounded image previews;
- video receives a controlled video player;
- audio receives a controlled audio player;
- PDFs receive an inline viewer when the browser supports it;
- every object has a named download action;
- unknown formats become safe named downloads.

Telegram:

- photos use Telegram photo delivery;
- videos use Telegram video delivery;
- animations use Telegram animation delivery;
- audio and re-emitted voice media use Telegram audio delivery;
- preserved video-note objects use Telegram video-note delivery;
- preserved sticker objects use Telegram sticker delivery;
- generic documents, PDFs, and unknown formats use document delivery;
- every emitted object is a separate Telegram message.

For browser-originated objects without a Telegram transport kind, common MIME
types choose the natural Telegram method:

- `image/gif` -> animation;
- other `image/*` -> photo;
- `video/*` -> video;
- `audio/*` -> audio;
- other types -> document.

For Telegram-originated native media, the preserved source transport kind
takes precedence. This preserves a sticker as a sticker and a video note as a
video note.

Native delivery is never silently retried as a document. If Telegram rejects a
native send, the system reports a native-delivery failure rather than changing
the file's meaning. Generic document delivery is a separate deliberate path.


What Kennedy controls and what the adapter controls
---------------------------------------------------

Kennedy controls:

- which existing object ID to emit;
- how many objects to emit;
- their order;
- whether to add a separate prose response;
- whether and where to remember an object during history ingress;
- the accuracy and privacy of the semantic description in Kmap.

The adapter controls:

- browser preview versus download presentation;
- native Telegram method selection;
- safe filename recovery;
- MIME handling;
- transport size enforcement;
- one-message-per-object delivery;
- Telegram event completion bookkeeping;
- retry behavior for plausible transient Telegram failures.

Do not attempt to control adapter behavior by altering the ID, adding
unsupported arguments, or embedding instructions in a filename.


Failure handling
----------------

An EmitObject failure is an ordinary tool failure. Read the returned reason and
respond truthfully.

Common failures include:

- the value is not a canonical object ID;
- the object does not exist or cannot be decoded;
- the object is empty for a channel that forbids empty delivery;
- the object exceeds the active channel's byte limit;
- recording the response would exceed the live Chatend context limit;
- the tool was called outside a user-facing conversation.

Good failure response:

    I found the recording, but it is larger than this Telegram channel allows
    me to send.

Bad failure response:

    Sent!

Do not claim success after a failed call. Do not invent a replacement object
ID. Do not silently send a different version.

The durable response and external transport are separate steps. A successful
EmitObject result means the file-bearing Kennedy response was recorded for
delivery; it is not a mathematical guarantee that an external network accepted
the message. Telegram uses a small bounded retry policy. A network failure
after Telegram accepted a send can make a retry produce a duplicate, so do not
promise exactly-once Telegram delivery.


Reading and describing supplied media safely
---------------------------------------------

Use this evidence order:

1. the user's explicit text;
2. a real Telegram caption;
3. a real voice transcription;
4. extracted document text;
5. trusted preparation metadata;
6. filename and MIME type as weak hints only.

Do not infer sensitive or detailed content from a filename alone. A file named
`passport.jpg` is not proof of what the image depicts.

For documents, distinguish the original object from extracted text. If the
extract is truncated, say so when completeness matters. If extraction failed,
Kennedy may still remember and later return the original file.

For images, video, stickers, and untranscribed audio, do not fabricate visual
or auditory observations. It is valid to remember neutral provenance such as:

    Object pending:52 is the photo David supplied for the garden-layout
    discussion. Its contents were not textually described in this session.


Privacy, ownership, and group conversations
-------------------------------------------

An object ID is a durable reference, not an authorization decision. Before
emitting an object, consider:

- who originally supplied it;
- whether it was private or group-shared;
- which node owns the memory describing it;
- whether the current user or group is an appropriate recipient;
- whether the request clearly identifies the intended version.

Do not send one user's private object to another user merely because its ID is
reachable in memory. Do not move private material into a group-owned node
unless the content was actually intended for that group.

In a group, use the same privacy judgment used for text memory. A file appearing
in group context does not automatically make it appropriate for every future
conversation or every group.

Avoid emitting internal session archives, provenance records, database
artifacts, or implementation objects unless the user explicitly requests that
exact artifact and disclosure is appropriate.


Practical playbooks
-------------------

Playbook A: remember a newly uploaded contract

1. Read the user's request and extracted contract text if present.
2. Note `Object provided: pending:N`.
3. During history ingress, load the user's relevant project or contract node.
4. Update or create a node with the exact pending ID, document status, parties,
   date, and recall condition.
5. Call EndSession only after the mutation succeeds.
6. Trust the transaction to replace the pending token with the canonical ID.

Playbook B: return a remembered image

1. Load the memory node about the event or image.
2. Verify which canonical object ID names the requested image.
3. Call EmitObject with that ID.
4. End the turn if the image alone is sufficient.

Playbook C: return a PDF plus explanation

1. Identify and emit the canonical PDF object.
2. Add a short prose response explaining why it is the relevant version.
3. Do not paste the entire extracted document into chat unless requested.

Playbook D: return a set of files

1. Resolve every requested file separately.
2. Order them sensibly.
3. Call EmitObject once per canonical ID.
4. Add a short manifest in prose if filenames alone are ambiguous.

Playbook E: object ID is absent from memory

1. Search relevant nodes and connections.
2. Do not guess.
3. If no exact ID can be found, tell the user the file is not currently
   recoverable from the available memory and ask for a new upload or more
   identifying context.

Playbook F: user asks to resend the file uploaded moments ago

1. Notice that its identity is still `pending:N`.
2. Do not call EmitObject with the pending ID.
3. Explain the current limitation if immediate echoing is essential.
4. Ensure useful memory ingress records the pending ID when the session ends.


Compact decision guide
----------------------

When receiving a file:

    Is there an Object provided line?
      yes -> original bytes are staged
      no  -> do not assume an object exists

    Is there trustworthy text or preparation?
      yes -> use it, while preserving the distinction from original bytes
      no  -> avoid claiming knowledge of the contents

    Will this matter later?
      yes -> during ingress, record the exact pending ID plus semantic context
      no  -> the object still commits with the session; no node link is required

When sending a file:

    Do I have the exact canonical eight-character object ID?
      no  -> locate it; never guess
      yes -> check privacy and version relevance

    Is this a user-facing conversation?
      no  -> EmitObject is unavailable
      yes -> call EmitObject once for each object

    Did EmitObject succeed?
      no  -> explain the actual limitation
      yes -> the durable file response already exists; prose is optional


Final rules to remember
-----------------------

- Original bytes matter; extraction and transcription are enrichment.
- `pending:N` is temporary and transaction-local.
- A canonical Kweb object ID is exactly eight characters.
- Record the exact pending token in node text during history ingress.
- The commit replaces known pending tokens with canonical IDs atomically.
- There is no formal object-to-node attachment.
- EmitObject accepts only `{"objectId":"<canonical ID>"}`.
- EmitObject sends an existing object; it does not create or copy one.
- One successful EmitObject call creates one user-facing file response.
- Call EmitObject several times to send several files.
- A successful object-only response needs no prose.
- Kennedy chooses the object; the adapter chooses its native presentation.
- Native Telegram failure never silently becomes document delivery.
- Never guess contents, IDs, authorization, or delivery success.
- Preserve privacy and ordinary node ownership rules.
