Kennedy Managed Rust Tools: New Context and Box Mechanics

Purpose

The managed Rust tools let Kennedy create, inspect, replace, validate, and
publish complete Rust library source trees. Their repository semantics still
come from kcode-rust-libs-v2. What changed is how KennedyServer represents an
opened library in Chatend.

The central rule is:

    One opened managed Rust library has one stateful complete-source box in
    Kennedy's active context.

Creating, opening, reopening, and successfully writing a library refresh that
stateful box. They do not accumulate additional complete copies of the source
in later Kennedy inputs.


Available calls

All calls go through the native call_ktool function.

Create a new library:

    {
      "name": "kcode-rust-libs-v2/create",
      "arguments": {
        "name": "example-lib"
      }
    }

Open or refresh an existing library:

    {
      "name": "kcode-rust-libs-v2/open",
      "arguments": {
        "name": "example-lib"
      }
    }

Read only the published-style documentation and version:

    {
      "name": "kcode-rust-libs-v2/docs",
      "arguments": {
        "name": "example-lib"
      }
    }

Replace the complete editable source:

    {
      "name": "kcode-rust-libs-v2/write",
      "arguments": {
        "name": "example-lib",
        "files": [
          {
            "path": "Cargo.toml",
            "contents": "[package]\nname = \"example-lib\"\nversion = \"0.1.0\"\nedition = \"2024\"\n\n[dependencies]\n"
          },
          {
            "path": "Documentation.md",
            "contents": "Library documentation.\n"
          },
          {
            "path": "src/lib.rs",
            "contents": "pub fn example() {}\n"
          }
        ]
      }
    }

Validate the currently opened source:

    {
      "name": "kcode-rust-libs-v2/check",
      "arguments": {
        "name": "example-lib"
      }
    }

Publish the currently opened source:

    {
      "name": "kcode-rust-libs-v2/publish",
      "arguments": {
        "name": "example-lib"
      }
    }


Create and open behavior

create initializes a minimal Rust 2024 library and opens it in the current
Kennedy tool session. open loads an existing library and opens it in the
current Kennedy tool session.

On successful create or open:

1. Kennedy receives the complete textual snapshot as the immediate native tool
   result.
2. KennedyServer installs that snapshot in one stateful Chatend box named
   "Managed Rust library NAME".
3. The box is keyed logically by the library name.
4. No second generic result box is retained in later active context.

Calling open again for the same library refreshes the same stateful box. If the
source changed, its canonical revision advances while its box ID remains
stable. If the source is identical, no duplicate source box is created.

create already leaves the new library open. Do not call open immediately after
create merely to prepare for write, check, or publish.

docs is different from open. docs returns only the version and
Documentation.md as an ordinary result. It does not establish an editable
session snapshot, so docs alone is not sufficient before write, check, or
publish.


Write is a complete replacement

write still uses the complete-replacement contract of kcode-rust-libs-v2.
Every useful managed source file that must remain in the library must appear in
the files array on every write.

Consequences:

- Omitting a previously present file deletes it from the new source
  generation.
- Adding a file means including its complete path and complete contents.
- Changing a file means supplying its complete new contents.
- Unchanged files must still be included.
- The order supplied by Kennedy is not significant; the committed snapshot is
  canonically sorted by path.
- Cargo.lock is ephemeral and must not be included.
- Root Cargo.toml and Documentation.md are mandatory.
- Cargo.toml [package].name must exactly match the managed library name.
- The package version must be a literal canonical major.minor.patch version.
- Paths must be safe relative slash-separated UTF-8 paths. Absolute paths,
  empty components, ".", "..", backslashes, colons, NULs, symlinks, and
  special files are not accepted.

Before calling write, use the complete source shown in the stateful library box
as the base. Preserve every file that should survive, make the intended
changes, and submit the resulting complete file set once.


What a successful write does to Chatend

A successful write atomically commits the complete replacement through
kcode-rust-libs-v2. KennedyServer then updates the canonical contents of the
existing stateful library box.

The update has these properties:

- The box ID does not change.
- The old complete source is removed from active Kennedy context.
- The new complete source appears once in active Kennedy context.
- A small continuation marker may remain at the box's previous chronological
  location, but it contains no source code.
- The successful write does not create a generic result box containing another
  source copy.
- The immediate native result is only a short acknowledgement listing the
  written file paths.

The active write-call box is deliberately compact. It records the tool name,
library name, and file count, plus a notice that complete contents were
omitted. It does not repeat the source.

The exact original write arguments are still preserved in the append-only
durable ToolInvoked event for audit, recovery, and later history inspection.
They are simply excluded from ordinary active Chatend projection. Therefore,
Kennedy should not expect the full write JSON to be visible in the next fresh
provider request. The updated stateful library box is the authoritative active
source view.


Capacity behavior

Before executing a write, KennedyServer previews the prospective context as:

    current library box replaced by new library box
    + compact write-call receipt

It does not preview:

    old complete source
    + complete write arguments
    + new complete source

This prevents the temporary duplicate-source estimate from incorrectly
rejecting an otherwise fitting replacement.

If the replacement snapshot itself would exceed the applicable Kennedy
context limit, the write is rejected before the repository is changed. Reducing
other active context, summarizing or dehydrating suitable boxes, or reducing
the library's managed source size may then be necessary.


Summarized and dehydrated library boxes

Kennedy retains control over box representation.

If the library box is hydrated when a write succeeds, the newly committed
complete source replaces the old source in active context.

If Kennedy previously summarized the library box, a successful write updates
the hidden canonical source but preserves Kennedy's summary. The summary is
marked stale because it predates the new canonical revision.

If Kennedy previously dehydrated the library box, a successful write updates
the hidden canonical source but leaves the box dehydrated and stale.

Use HydrateBox with the stable library box ID to restore the latest canonical
source after a summarized or dehydrated box changes:

    {
      "name": "HydrateBox",
      "arguments": {
        "boxId": 47
      }
    }

Hydration is still subject to the applicable context limit.

Do not dehydrate the old source merely because a write is about to happen.
The successful write already revises the same box without retaining the old
complete source.


Failure behavior

The stateful library box is updated only after kcode-rust-libs-v2 reports a
successful operation.

If write fails:

- The repository head is not reported as successfully replaced.
- The opened in-memory library handle is restored to its prior file set by the
  Kennedy adapter.
- The stateful Chatend library box remains at its prior canonical source.
- The attempted complete write arguments remain in durable invocation history
  but are not hydrated into later active context.
- Kennedy receives a short ordinary failure result.

check failures do not change the source box. publish failures do not change the
source box. docs failures do not create or update an editable source box.


Session scope and concurrent edits

An opened library handle belongs to one Kennedy Rust-tool session. write,
check, and publish require the library to have been created or opened in that
same session.

If Kennedy receives rust_lib_not_open, call open in the current session before
trying again.

Different Kennedy sessions may open the same library concurrently. The library
uses optimistic stale-snapshot detection rather than exclusive ownership. If
another session commits first, a later write from the older snapshot fails
with rust_lib_stale_snapshot.

On rust_lib_stale_snapshot:

1. Call open again.
2. Inspect the refreshed source in the same stateful library box.
3. Reconcile the intended changes against that new source.
4. Submit a new complete replacement.

Do not blindly resend the rejected files after reopening, because doing so may
erase the other session's committed changes.

When the Kennedy session ends, its opened handles are released. A later
session must call open again. The stateful Chatend box records context history;
it is not a cross-session live library handle.


Check and publish

check validates exactly the current in-memory complete source associated with
the opened handle. After a successful write, that handle and the stateful box
both represent the newly committed generation, so check can be called directly
without reopening.

check performs the managed fixed validation sequence, including formatting,
build, Clippy, tests, and documentation tests in the library sandbox. A clean
check returns a short ordinary success result. A failed check returns bounded
diagnostics and does not alter source.

publish rechecks and publishes exactly the current opened source. It does not
read an arbitrary source copy from a write-call box. Continue to follow all
existing authorization requirements before publishing; the new box mechanics
do not grant publication permission.


Recommended workflow

For an existing library:

1. Call open.
2. Read the complete source from the stateful managed-library box.
3. Decide the bounded change.
4. Construct the complete replacement, retaining all files that should remain.
5. Call write once with that complete replacement.
6. Treat the revised stateful box as the current source. Do not reopen merely
   to make the box current.
7. Call check.
8. If check fails, revise the complete source shown in the same box and write
   again.
9. Publish only when appropriate and authorized.

For a new library:

1. Call create.
2. Use the created stateful source box as the base.
3. Call write with the complete desired source.
4. Call check.
5. Publish only when appropriate and authorized.


Multiple libraries

Each opened library receives its own stable stateful box. Writing one library
updates only that library's box. The complete sources of other opened
libraries remain unchanged.

Use the library name in every managed Rust call and verify that the stateful
box heading matches the intended library before constructing a complete
replacement.


Practical context rules for Kennedy

- Use open, not docs, when code will be edited, checked, or published.
- Regard the stateful managed-library box as the active canonical source view.
- Expect one complete source copy after successful create, open, or write.
- Expect a compact write-call receipt rather than full write JSON in the next
  fresh input.
- Remember that write is complete replacement, not a patch.
- Do not omit unchanged files.
- Do not reopen after every successful write.
- Reopen after stale_snapshot or when an explicit external refresh is needed.
- If a summarized or dehydrated box becomes stale, hydrate it before relying
  on the new canonical source.
- Treat a failed write as having left the previous source box current.
- Keep publication authorization separate from source and context mechanics.
