LoadNode, JSON, and the live Chatend
====================================

This note records the discussion about JSON entering Kennedy's context during
node loading and history ingress, and the design decisions that followed.


The question
------------

The immediate question was whether loading a Kweb node could put JSON into
Kennedy's Chatend or provider context. There were two very different uses of
JSON:

1. Kennedy's native tool invocation, such as:

       {
         "name": "LoadNode",
         "arguments": {"identifier": "AAECAwQF"}
       }

2. The old generic "Kennedy tool result" box, which pretty-printed a wrapper
   around the complete structured value returned by the Kweb loading API.

The invocation was judged acceptable. It is a small, precise account of the
action Kennedy chose to take. The result was not acceptable. The result JSON
duplicated information that had already been converted into the persistent
Kweb box layout, exposed an internal transport shape, and could be much larger
and harder to read than the actual context Kennedy needed.

This distinction is important: JSON is useful for internal records and tool
arguments, but that does not make an internal API response a good
model-facing representation.


What LoadNode already did correctly
-----------------------------------

The LoadNode overhaul had already established one canonical, stateful Kweb
layout. Loading a node reconciles that layout rather than appending an
unrelated dump:

- the directly loaded node has its own full box;
- previously unseen fixed connections have their own full boxes;
- previously unseen active connections have their own full boxes;
- active connections are the first eight recent connections;
- each directly loaded node has a deduplicated fanout-summary box;
- the fixed-neighbor, active-neighbor, and downstream-fanout aggregate boxes
  are updated as necessary;
- global role precedence and deduplication prevent repeated descriptive text;
- repeated loads refresh existing boxes instead of manufacturing duplicates.

Those boxes are already the intended representation for Kennedy. Full node
boxes use labeled text for the node ID, name, summary, long description, and
the identifier lists for fixed, active, and fanout connections. Summary boxes
use the same deterministic text format as the rest of the Kweb layout.
Structured metadata used to restore and reconcile the boxes remains internal;
BoxContent rendering does not print that metadata into Kennedy's context.


Why updating the boxes was not enough
-------------------------------------

A manual LoadNode call happens during a provider turn. The provider input for
that turn was assembled before the tool call. Mutating and persisting Chatend
updates the input for the next provider request, but it cannot retroactively
change the request that is already running.

Consequently, returning only a small "load succeeded" receipt would leave the
current turn unable to see the node it had just requested. Returning the
complete Kweb API JSON solved that timing problem, but did so by creating a
second, inferior representation.

The correct response is the changed part of the canonical representation
itself. After reconciliation, LoadNode identifies every active Kweb box whose
name or canonical revision was created or changed by the load. It then returns
those boxes through the native tool response:

- in persistent Kweb layout order;
- using the exact text of each current Chatend projection item;
- with the ordinary box header;
- respecting the box's current hydrated, summarized, or dehydrated
  representation;
- including the stale marker when a retained summary or dehydrated
  representation is based on an older canonical revision.

This is not another serialization format. It is a same-turn delivery of the
boxes that will already be present in the next Chatend projection.


Decisions
---------

Manual LoadNode now follows this sequence:

1. Preserve the normal native invocation and its JSON invocation box.
2. Load or refresh the canonical node and its connection closure.
3. Reconcile the shared Kweb tool slots and persistent layout.
4. Detect the Kweb boxes created or revised by this reconciliation.
5. Return the exact current renderings of those boxes to the in-flight
   provider turn.
6. Do not create a generic "Kennedy tool result" JSON box for LoadNode.
7. Append a compact completion receipt to the journal.

The compact receipt contains operational facts such as the requested
identifier, changed box IDs and count, duration, and success or error. It does
not retain the Kweb API's full load result. Tool completion events are not
part of the ordinary Chatend projection, so this structured receipt does not
silently enter Kennedy's context.

If a repeated LoadNode call produces no box changes, the native result is the
short plain-text acknowledgement:

    LoadNode completed. The shared Kweb boxes were already current.

If LoadNode fails, the native failure is also short plain text and no generic
JSON result box is created. Other tools keep their existing result behavior;
this change is specific to LoadNode because its result is the stateful Kweb
box layout itself.


History ingress and remaining JSON paths
----------------------------------------

History ingress uses the same journal and the same Kweb boxes. It does not
need to ingest a second node-result representation. Loaded direct, fixed, and
active node boxes remain protected by the history-ingress context policy, and
the layout's fanout and aggregate boxes participate in ordinary
budget-relative reduction when necessary.

The accepted LoadNode invocation box can remain JSON. If context pressure
requires reduction and an invocation exceeds 1,000 characters, history
ingress may replace it with the programmatic summary:

    Tool invocation: LoadNode {arguments dehydrated: 1,284 characters}.

There is one explicit inspection route to the compact completion record:
during history ingress, Kennedy may call HydrateEvent for that exact journal
event. HydrateEvent intentionally renders the inspected event as JSON. This
is not an automatic LoadNode or history-ingress path; it happens only when
Kennedy asks to inspect the durable event.

Telegram group context was explicitly left for later. This work does not
change its current formatting or make broader promises that no JSON can ever
appear anywhere in a Kennedy session.


Why this is the simpler design
------------------------------

The final design has one durable source of model-facing Kweb truth: the Kweb
boxes. It avoids:

- duplicate node content in generic tool-result boxes;
- an internal API response becoming a second public rendering contract;
- extra history-ingress content that must later be dehydrated;
- divergence between what the current turn sees and what the next Chatend
  projection contains.

The native tool response only bridges the timing boundary of an in-flight
turn. Persistence remains compact, the visible node format remains
deterministic, and loading work scales with the actual Kweb boxes that must be
reconciled and returned.
