Objects, users, and file exchange
================================

Kennedy and a user can exchange arbitrary files in browser and Telegram
conversations. An object is the durable Kweb form of one of those files.

Objects are deliberately lightweight. There is no formal relationship between
an object and a Kmap node, no object-ownership graph, and no special file node.
If an object matters for future work, Kennedy records its object ID in ordinary
node text, normally the node's long description.


What Kennedy sees
-----------------

A user message that contains a file renders an object reference in its owning
message box:

    Object provided: pending:47

The rest of the message may contain the user's caption, a voice transcription,
or extracted document text. Those are useful enrichment, but the object
reference names the original file. Extraction or transcription failure does
not discard an accepted file.

During the source conversation, a newly uploaded file has a session-local
pending ID. The pending ID is stable within that session and may be used in
history-ingress memory work.

After the session transaction commits, the file has a canonical
eight-character Kweb object ID, such as:

    gAECAwQF

Canonical object IDs are durable across sessions. Pending IDs are not.


Remembering a user file
-----------------------

There is no AttachObjectToNode tool and Kennedy should not invent a formal
relationship. To retain a useful file:

1. Notice its exact `Object provided: pending:N` reference.
2. Decide which existing or new memory node should explain the file.
3. Include that exact pending ID in the node's long description.
4. Explain what the object contains, why it matters, and when it should be
   recalled.

For example, a staged long description may say:

    The signed venue agreement is stored as object pending:47. It covers the
    October event, has the final cancellation terms, and should be returned
    when the user asks for the signed agreement.

At commit, Kennedy's transaction replaces exact known pending-object tokens in
node descriptions with their canonical object IDs. The committed node might
therefore say:

    The signed venue agreement is stored as object gAECAwQF. It covers the
    October event, has the final cancellation terms, and should be returned
    when the user asks for the signed agreement.

The replacement happens inside the same Kweb transaction as the file and node
commit. Kennedy does not need to predict the canonical ID or perform a second
node update.

Only exact known pending-object tokens are replaced. Preserve the complete
`pending:N` spelling when writing it into node text.


Recalling a file
----------------

In a later conversation, Kennedy can recover a remembered file by loading the
relevant node and reading the canonical object ID from its long description.

To send that file to the user, call:

    {
      "name": "EmitObject",
      "arguments": {
        "objectId": "gAECAwQF"
      }
    }

`EmitObject` accepts exactly one canonical eight-character object ID. It is
available only in user-facing conversation sessions. It validates that the
object exists and that the active channel can deliver it, then creates an
ordinary Kennedy message containing the object.

A successful `EmitObject` call is already a user-facing response. Kennedy may
end the turn without adding prose. If context would benefit from explanation,
Kennedy may also provide a normal text response. Kennedy may call EmitObject
several times in one turn to return several files.

Do not call EmitObject with `pending:N`. A pending object is not yet a
canonical Kweb object and cannot be recalled by object ID in a later session.

Do not copy the file into a new object merely to send it. EmitObject sends the
existing immutable Kweb object and does not mutate the Kmap.


What the user receives
----------------------

The response adapter decides how to present the durable Kennedy object
message.

In the browser:

- images are shown as bounded image previews;
- video and audio use controlled media players;
- PDFs are shown in an inline viewer when the browser supports it;
- every file has a download action;
- unknown formats are safe named downloads.

In Telegram:

- supported media can be sent as native photos, videos, animations, audio,
  video notes, or stickers;
- documents and unknown formats are sent through Telegram's document/file
  behavior;
- each emitted object is a separate Telegram message;
- an object-only response completes the Telegram event on the final file.

Transport delivery happens after the object-bearing Kennedy message is
durably recorded. EmitObject itself does not perform Telegram I/O.


Telegram compatibility
----------------------

The workspace uses the native-media-capable Telegram relay. It accepts Telegram
photos, videos, animations, audio, video notes, and stickers directly, retains
their transport kind, and returns them with the matching native Telegram
method. Generic documents and unknown formats continue to use Telegram's
document/file behavior.

Kennedy must not reinterpret a failed native send as a document send. The
transport reports that failure so the native kind and user-visible behavior
remain honest. Sending an object as a generic document is a separate deliberate
choice, not an automatic fallback.


Users, nodes, and ownership
---------------------------

A file being supplied by a user does not change Kmap node ownership. Node
ownership continues to use the ordinary user, Kennedy, or group root rules.
The object ID in a node description is a durable reference in prose, not an
ownership declaration.

In a group conversation, remember private or group-shared material only in the
appropriate owned node, following the same memory and privacy judgment used
for text messages. File transfer does not broaden Kennedy's authorization or
make an object appropriate for every participant.

The file envelope retains a safe filename, media type, source transport kind,
and the exact original bytes. These properties help the adapter return the
file correctly; they do not establish a user identity or access-control
relationship.


Practical rules
---------------

- Treat extracted text and transcriptions as aids, not as replacements for the
  original object.
- Record an object's purpose alongside its ID; an unexplained ID is difficult
  to recall usefully.
- Use the exact pending ID during the committing history-ingress session.
- Use only the canonical eight-character ID with EmitObject.
- Do not create a formal object-to-node relationship.
- Do not duplicate an object just to send it.
- Let EmitObject be the terminal response when the file itself fully answers
  the user.
- If EmitObject reports a missing object, invalid ID, context limit, empty
  Telegram file, or channel size limit, treat it as an ordinary tool failure
  and explain the limitation rather than claiming the file was sent.
